ABSTRACT

Data visualization is essential to assist organizations in quickly identifying trends in the data, which might in other case be a hassle. The pictorial or graphical representation of data sets allows analysts to visualize concepts and new patterns. With the increase in data day to day, experiencing the quintillion bytes of data is impossible without Data Proliferation, which includes data visualization. All the mediums used for visualizing and understanding data are a dashboard, graph, infographics, map, chart, video, slide, etc. Just as a picture is worth a thousand words, a visual is worth a thousand data points. Visualizing the data allows decision-makers to interrelate the data to find better insights and acquire the importance of data visualization. Visualization quality and readability will depend on the tool we use and, therefore, it is important to choose an application that suits our needs. Power BI is an application designed for business analysis and enables access to data from any device. Power BI is a predictive and intelligent system which has the capacity to transform the most complex data into visualizations or reports with attractive designs that promote understanding and legibility. It contains queries, different visualization settings, data models, reports, and other data which is added by the user. 

This Power BI project includes visualizing various information related to OTT platforms such as Netflix. By accessing OTT media platform dataset from Kaggle and using the Query Editor in Power BI for data cleaning and preparation. Once data is ready for visualization, displaying the visuals using various plots, graphs, cards, such as pie charts, bar graphs, line charts, tree maps, doughnut Charts, etc. to build the dashboard. The goal of  this directed study involves visualizing various information related to an OTT platform such as Netflix, Hotstar, Amazon Prime, etc., by using the Query Editor in Power BI for data cleaning and transformation and visualize different patterns, spot trends, identify outliers and create the dashboard using the data visualization tool - Power BI. 

I would also like to thank The Devastator for providing the dataset used in this project. The knowledge and skills gained from this project will undoubtedly serve as a foundation for my future pursuits.
